---
published: false
layout: post
permalink: /article/663399becca
title: For Eric, For Kat, For the Meyerses
noComments: true
showMeyer: true
---

I have conversed with Eric Meyer twice in my life. The first time was a electronic question on his reset.css file. The second was in person at my first ever An Event Apart. In these two conversations, the mysteries of CSS were dispersed and I saw through him a beautiful web. I drifted away from servers and into the world of the browser. For many of us in the web industry, Eric is a mentor and an inspiration.

Since the middle of last year, Eric and his wife Kat have shown courage to share with the world [the reality and emotions of cancer](http://meyerweb.com/eric/thoughts/category/personal/cancer). Their middle daughter, Rebecca was diagnosed in August with grade 3 (anaplastic) astrocytoma. On the sidelines, we hoped and prayed for their daughter to win a battle that wasn't of her choosing.

Rebecca Alison Meyer passed away June 7, 2014. She was six years, eleven and a half hours old.

[The family has asked that](http://meyerweb.com/eric/thoughts/2014/06/09/in-memoriam-2/) charitable donations be made in Rebecca’s name to the Philadelphia Ronald McDonald House or the St. Baldrick’s Foundation.  They further request that those who attend the services and are comfortable wearing purple do so in honor of Rebecca and her favorite color.

This page, [all the tweets](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23663399Becca), and all that will be said in person and online cannot begin express the collective sadness we all share. Eric, Kat, Carolyn, and Joshua: may the pages, the blogs, the tweets, and the comments all find you in this difficult time.
